---
title: "Online Algorithm for Fractional Matchings with Edge Arrivals in Graphs of Maximum Degree Three"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publication/WAOA-2025
excerpt: 'Authors: Kanstantsin Pashkovich, Thomas Snow'
date: 2025-11-10
venue: 'Workshop on Approximation and Online Algorithms (WAOA)'
---
<!---
slidesurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/slides1.pdf'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
bibtexurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/bibtex1.bib'
citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
-->

We study online algorithms for maximum cardinality match
ings with edge arrivals in graphs of low degree. Buchbinder, Segev,
 and Tkach showed that no online algorithm for maximum cardinal
ity fractional matchings can achieve a competitive ratio larger than
 4/(9 − √5) ≈ 0.5914 even for graphs of maximum degree three. The
 negative result of Buchbinder et al. holds even when the graph is bipar
tite and edges are revealed according to vertex arrivals, i.e. once a vertex
 arrives, all edges are revealed that include the newly arrived vertex and
 one of the previously arrived vertices. In this work, we complement the
 negative result of Buchbinder et al. by providing an online algorithm
 for maximum cardinality fractional matchings with a competitive ratio
 at least 4/(9−√5) ≈ 0.5914 for graphs of maximum degree three. We also
 demonstrate that no online algorithm for maximum cardinality integral
 matchings can have the competitive guarantee 0.5807, establishing a gap
 between integral and fractional matchings for graphs of maximum degree
 three. Note that the work of Buchbinder et al. shows that for graphs of
 maximum degree two, there is no such gap between fractional and inte
gral matchings, because for both of them the best achievable competitive
 ratio is 2/3. Also, our results demonstrate that for graphs of maximum
 degree three best possible competitive ratios for fractional matchings are
 the same in the vertex arrival and in the edge arrival models.
